I'm sharing exactly how to build a B2B
SEO strategy from scratch that's focused
on driving pipeline, real sales calls,
real revenue rather than vanity metric.
I'll talk with a real business owner.
I'll answer his burning questions, share
exactly how to do it from steps A to Z
without the fluff. Let's dive into it.
Obviously, we do SEO. I do it myself.
Certainly not an SEO expert like you
guys, but had some small wins. We
probably get like one or two conversions
a month from organic search, which is
great. If I just describe to you very
kind of briefly what we're doing, maybe
you could give me a perspective on what
we're not doing, what we should do next.
Here's a specific question. Currently,
our homepage is optimized for the
keyword LinkedIn ads agency, and that's
because we do one thing, which is we're
a LinkedIn ads agency. Is it good to
have your homepage optimized for your
number one most important keyword, or
should it be its own page?
>> I think that's fine. I think what you'll
probably find is if someone searches now
for like LinkedIn ads agency or best
LinkedIn ads agency and if they're
searching from say UK where we are now
or maybe US what they'll probably see is
a mix at least on Google search results
and probably similar on chat GBT of
probably homepages dedicated landing
pages and listicles like we reviewed the
top 10 or top X best LinkedIn ads
agencies of 2025 in your case cuz that's
your niche. You definitely can rank your
um your homepage. I don't know how your
homepage is doing now. And you can go
after that. You can build out content
that's going to serve that intent. I'd
probably do that as an overarching SEO
strategy. So like have that homepage as
that core keyword focus. Earn back links
or acquire back links and brand mentions
to that.
>> Yeah.
>> But then I'd probably like we've done
this for a bunch of sites. Also build a
listical like I don't know if you built
any of these yet.
>> No. So we do have a blog and we publish
we take like our what we know about the
space in our internal documentation and
turn it into you know like a blog post
on attribution blog post on how to
troubleshoot your campaigns. We just
published one a blog post about thought
leader ads. So we'll take specific
areas. We've never done a listicle about
like the best LinkedIn ads agencies, but
maybe we should
>> 100% do it because these listicles and
for anyone that doesn't know it, it's
basically an article like you said there
where we review the top 10 x software
service. It works in software, works in
service, agencies, tools, platforms,
whatever is relevant for your solution.
But they just work exceptionally well
both on Google organic search and now
LLMs like chat GBT. So, for example, if
you go on to Chat GBT and I was to
search like show me the best LinkedIn
ads agencies, filter them by budget,
maybe reviews, and then filter it to
like the top three, it would literally
just bring up cuz obviously chatbt
unlike Google, you don't see the 10 blue
links with the option to click through
to the web page. It just gives you the
information in feed. It would show me
those three agencies, but the citation,
so the link out would probably be a
listical and that could be a listical
either on their own website or an
external website where they've got a
placement in someone else's website and
that is niche. The good thing for you
guys specifically is if you're looking
to rank for that core term LinkedIn ads
agency on your homepage, but you build
out one of these lists and you position
yourself as number one.
>> Yeah.
>> And you share backed by customer
research like why folks choose you, your
pros, your cons, maybe you weave in like
a customer review of like why they chose
you, all that kind of stuff. Then a fair
comparison of say nine or 10 other
agencies below. You could rank page one
organic of Google for that listical as
well as your homepage. Plus, if you
start building these lists, LinkedIn ads
agency, LinkedIn ads company, LinkedIn
ads management, all that kind of stuff.
You build out these separate listicles,
you can also improve your chances to get
cited on Chat GBC. So, it's almost like
two hits in one. So, yeah, definitely
that'll be a big play.
>> You you mentioned another thing there,
which is something I've thought about,
which is like back links and getting
back links. So, our backlink profile is
pretty small. I'm not sure the best way
to go about getting more of them. I like
backlinks still important. What's the
best play right now for getting more of
them?
>> Yeah, so getting more and relevant
links. By the way, if you want to start
driving pipeline and revenue through SEO
on Google organic search and now LLMs,
why not grab a call with me over at
breakingb.com or hit the link in the
description below. Right, back to the
video. Yeah, so getting more and
relevant links. I suppose there's two
things to think about is tools like chat
GBT LLMs work more off brand mentions.
So a lot of folks ask me like Sam,
what's the best way to get LLM
visibility and chatbt visibility? And I
say it's easy. just go back and build a
brand 10 years ago. But not many of us
can do that. So in instead the best next
best thing is to get your brand in your
category or your solution or your
service consistently mentioned on niche
relevant and industry relevant trusted
sites like review sites, Reddit, etc.
But backlinks are the important
certainly still are from a Google
organic perspective. Google is still by
far the leader when it comes to market
share for search. Chat GBT is steadily
rising. But one of the best ways is have
you guys done much? I'm I'm sure you
have cuz you got three founders way in
the way of press like have you been on
maybe you've been featured on industry
news or you've done other podcasts or I
know you do events with LinkedIn so I'm
guessing you folks have got some of
that. Yeah, we do do some of that. To be
honest, we could certainly do more. And
we've never done like conventional PR, I
suppose you call it, like reaching out
to publications and asking to write for
them. Partially because one, we're very
busy, but we've always kind of had the
mindset of we'll, you know, build our
brand on our site rather than kind of
writing for others. But maybe it sounds
like that's something that's worth
doing. Like, well, how would you do it?
Like make a list of publications and
offer to guest posts for them.
>> Yeah. So often say with backlinks you
can beg, borrow, pay or steal. So you
can definitely buy back links. You can
work with teams like ours and we can
acquire them for you from trusted niche
relevant sites or because you've got
three founders. Something that I've done
at breaking B2B is basically actively
apply to niche relevant podcasts because
guing on niche relevant podcasts that
your dream clients are listening to or
watching is like three hits in one big
PR hit. Can get direct lead flow because
if someone listens or watches you for
like 30 minutes on an interview, they
might think, "Oh, this guy knows what
he's talking about or this girl knows
what she's talking about. I'm going to
inquire with them plus the SEO boost. So
there's I plug this all the time on my
show. It's site called listennotes.com.
You literally in your case, type in
LinkedIn ads or B2B marketing or SAS
marketing because that would serve all
your niches. Look at the top rated
shows. You can see who hosts them and
then you can reach out to whoever hosts
them. They'll probably be on LinkedIn
guest on a couple of those a month and
then you'll get all that hit for PR,
potential inbound following on LinkedIn.
Plus, after they publish the show on
their website, you can ask for a link
back, maybe in your case, LinkedIn ads
agency to your homepage or to that
listicle, as well as them mentioning
your brand, which will give you a boost
in the LLMs, and you get like three or
four hits in one.
>> Nice.
>> Listen notes.
>> Listenotes.com is my favorites.
>> I'm definitely way more interested in
the idea of doing like podcasts rather
than something about kind of like
writing guest articles for people just
felt very old school. When I I started
to research it recently, I just thought
feels a bit like 2010. But yeah, okay,
I'll do that. That's a really good one.
Yeah. So, as I said, we are we are
blogging at the moment and we do
actually cuz it's very low volume. So,
we're already ranking and like some of
these articles, they get barely any uh
visits, but they have driven
conversions, which is great cuz people
want an audit of their ads. What's the
best approach for like B2B blogging
right now from an SEO perspective?
>> Yeah, it's a funny one cuz a lot of
people, you've only got to scroll
LinkedIn and people like the blog is
dead, the blog is dead, blogs don't work
anymore. It's like, well, I run an SEO
agency and yeah, they work super fine,
but they've got to have the right
strategy and you just nailed it. The
biggest mistake with SEO is getting
sucked into I call it the traffic trap.
Going for these keywords that get
thousands or tens of thousands of
searches per month, but they're too top
funnel. They're too information based
like in your case, how to run LinkedIn
ads or what is a LinkedIn ad or stuff
like that. That is a really
information-based query that probably
gets tons of searches. But I'm probably
not searching like how to do something
or what is something. I'm really early
in my learning journey trying to educate
myself. Whereas if I'm searching for
something like you to your point
bottomfunnel linked best LinkedIn ads
agency or best LinkedIn ads management
companies or LinkedIn ads management for
SAS or LinkedIn ads management for B2B
tech. The crux of good SEO for B2B is
working out what does my dream client
search not when they're information
gathering but when they actually are
ready to have a sales conversation now.
So exhausting that bottom of funnel. So
you you could just make a list. You've
probably done some of this already. But
I often talk about a money keyword
matrix like do four columns on a Google
sheet. you and your founders could get
together and say look this is every way
someone could refer to our solution like
LinkedIn ads agency company management
firm the next column would be all the
industries we serve best so SAS I don't
know if you've got other are there other
other industries that you guys serve
well
>> yeah yeah like uh quite a few consulting
and IT a few in the fintech space like
increasingly like logistics and and you
know the kind of software end of
logistics as well so yeah loads
>> so basically do one column of every way
someone can refer to your solution
second all the industries third
competitor comptors perhaps it it might
work a little bit if there's well-known
LinkedIn ads competitors where folks
might search for alternative with that
competitor that's the route and then the
last route is a bit more topfunnel which
is what are your dream clients
struggling moments problems or jobs to
be done so if there's real crisp
specific problems now these could be
howto but they'll be very specific like
how to do xyz within LinkedIn ads and
you know that's a pain point that people
come on discovery calls or sales calls
and it's very specific so again low
volume but super high sales intent so
nail all those and then basically
exhaust that like start with that any
content and like you say if you whack
those searches on a tool like HFS
there'll probably be low search volume
there'll probably be low difficulty so
they'll rank fast but they'll be high
sales intent so in your case if you've
not done many listicles like they
they'll rank really well and there'll
probably be quite a few like if you
search best LinkedIn ads agency with SAS
that's probably a top we reviewed the
top 10 LinkedIn ads agencies for SAS
companies or likewise for IT companies
or sales companies or HR companies and
you could probably get those ranking
quite quickly cuz they're low
competition and then likewise if you've
not done already we probably have build
landing pages for each one of those all
it is really is the simple terms. Once
you build out those money longtail
keyword, you search them on Google, see
what type of content ranks well, build
out a page that blows the current page
out of the water, if it's a more
competitive term, yeah, you might need
to earn niche relevant back links to it.
But that's like the very simplified
version of it without going into
technical SEO stuff.
>> Nice. Do do you have like a copy of that
the money keyword matrix online
anywhere? Cuz that sounds great. I'd
love to check that out if you have it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we've got a 90 days
torevenue SEO playbook. It's on breaking
b2t2b.com. when you hit the newsletter
tab or just search breaking B2B on
YouTube or wherever you get podcast and
that most of the SEO walkthroughs it's
it's all on there but can certainly
share.
>> Nice. Cool. And then just generally like
what would you recommend are the best
things that we can focus on from an SEO
perspective to improve our rankings and
you know build upon the kind of small
amount of momentum that we've got at the
moment.
>> Yeah, it's basically double down on what
we said there. So really exhaust that
bottom funnel. Make sure you've got I
often say like I'm big now especially
with the introduction of more folks
using chatbt and LLMs like really build
your own moat really exhaust bottom
funnel. Build your own moat and control
the narrative. So first and foremost
make sure once you've worked out those
money longtail keywords make sure you've
got a relevant page that serves the
intent whether that's a listical landing
page your homepage other articles that
nail on that keyword that are best
inclass talks about the problem of
prospects facing specifically positions
your solution as the painkiller. weaves
in plenty of trust signals, social
proof, video case studies, etc. has FAQs
that address real sales call questions,
basic technical SEO, so the keywords
within the single H1, within the URL,
within the metadata, internal links to
and from relevant pages if they're more
competitive, kind of earn back links,
like you could do podcast guesting, you
could do like guest posting like you
said, or you could work with partners.
There's loads of ways you can do it. Um,
so do all that strategy, but also
something that's going to be big is this
kind of goes back to the old school,
especially if you want to get visibility
on chat GBT, like control the narrative.
So build listicles, build pages on your
own site, but also if you can see
listicles that are being cited a lot on
chat GPT or Google, like top LinkedIn
ads agencies in your case, if you can
reach out to those folks and try and get
a placement in the top three, that's
really going to help both your Google
visibility and your visibility. And a
lot of people think, why the heck would
my competitor list me? That's never ever
going to happen. And I can speak from
experience. I've reached out to probably
10 B2B and SAS SEO agencies, so our
direct competitors, and they've all been
open to it. I just offer them a value
exchange. I just say look I'll either
add you to our article or maybe I'll
invite you on my podcast or we'll do
something on LinkedIn. So I often think
like there's enough business to go
around for for everyone.
>> Yeah,
>> especially in the world of B2B tech and
SAS there's so many companies we don't
have to fight over the same business. So
that's a really good way like if you can
earn placements in those external sites
that are are building those lists really
really big cheat code for getting
placement directly gen SEO as well as
brand mentions to help with LLMs. Yeah,
that that's probably a big thing right
now.
>> Nice one. So, so far my kind of guide
for doing SEO stuff has been chat GPT
just because I've thought, you know,
I'll kind of follow its advice and see
how far it can take me. What's your
thoughts on that? Like, is it is it a
good source of SEO advice? Is the risk
there that I'm just following the same
advice as everyone else and so there's
no competitive advantage. Um, yeah. What
do you kind of think about that?
>> I'm sure it's good for the basics. So,
I'm sure like basic stuff like how to do
technical SEO on a page, maybe some
gives you some ideas for backlinks,
maybe gives you ideas for page
structure. I think where you might fall
short is the actual content itself. So,
we've talked about kind of bottom of
funnel, high sales intent, low
competition keywords, which would be
great for a business like yours. Really
exhaust those. But then also, a lot of
SEOs talk about optimizing. Optimize for
this, optimize for that. I often say
that the missing piece is resonating
with dream clients, their expensive
problems, their motivations, their jobs
to be done, their goals. So leveraging
insights from sales calls, customer
success calls, and more. So when someone
lands on that page, not only is it going
to rank on Google or show up on chat
GBT, but if a dream client lands on it,
would they say this company understands
my world, they know the problems I'm
facing, they're talking how I talk,
they're addressing real pain points,
they're showing proof that they can
actually deliver. So we're also weaving
that into the copy on the page, I'd say,
is another secret power. And also making
sure access whether it's an article,
whether it's a landing page, it actually
works as a sales page.
>> Yeah.
>> And Hrefs, the SEO tool, are the
absolute mass of this. like they rank
exceptionally well on SEO. But you look
at their articles, every tool as a sales
page. Every tool positions their product
exactly talks about how their product
can fix that painless. So if you can do
that, then you're going to kind of one
up the competitors that are just doing
basic SEO.
>> They were like there were probably other
companies doing it, but I remember
having the same realization going on
their blog and being like, this is so
smart. It's so obvious. Why isn't
everyone doing this? that like rather
than just giving you a piece of advice,
they were like giving you the advice
with screenshots of their product doing
the thing that you're googling, you
know, if you're an AHF's user, this is
how you do that. And I just remember
reading it and being like, that's
amazing cuz obviously I'm about to
become
>> Yeah.
>> a user [laughter]
because you made it look really easy
with with landing pages. That's another
question. So like I understand like
using blogs, how to use a blog to like
target a keyword. I sometimes find
myself struggling to know like what kind
of landing page I should build for SEO.
Like I'm very comfortable building
landing pages for paid social cuz it's
just like be really clear above the
fold, have some really compelling social
proof, answer the specific questions a
customer has. With SEO, you have to do
other stuff which is like actually make
the page rank for the the search terms.
So like what's your current approach for
building landing pages? Do you build
like templates and then repurpose them?
How do you think about it? isn't
anything too advanced really. Like it's
not always all of it links back to
strategy. It's not always the smartest
idea to build a landing page. Like you
say, landing pages is obviously killer
for paid media for ads and things like
that because rather than sending to a
generic website, someone getting
confused and you have one page that's
purely focused on that offer. With SEO,
it often depends what search and what
keyword you're going after because a
landing page might not be the best fit.
It might be you want to in your case
rank for best LinkedIn ads agencies and
listicals are ranking and homepages
ranking. Um so maybe a landing page
isn't the best fit, but let's pretend it
is. Let's pretend in this case it did
make sense. I mean you got the basic SEO
stuff. So have your money keyword in the
URL and single H1. Weave it in naturally
throughout the copy. Have some internal
links all that good stuff. Aside from
that, I usually recommend the problem
agitation solution framework. So if it's
a landing page, you struggling with XYZ
top three problems that folks face based
on sales calls. Yeah, you've got the
hero area. Then maybe agitation like
this is probably the impact that is
causing your business. This is
specifically how our software or service
fixes it. here's two or three case study
videos of kind of why someone chose us
specifically having this problem and the
impact it it gave maybe some customer
quotes u maybe some more results some
links to external case studies maybe FAQ
FAQ sections are big so again taking
real sales call questions specifically
on that topic like in our case breaking
me to be on pages we'll have stuff like
why are you so expensive are you going
to ship me off to a junior account
manager once we sign off um what's your
returns policy like what's the minimum
retainer that kind of stuff like real
tough questions also YouTube videos.
Embedding a relevant YouTube video on
the topic on the page seems to be really
big. Gives you a bit of a boost in the
Google ranking can also get pulled into
chatbt. Not only that, you can rank in
the video section on Google and you can
improve your click-through rate in
organic search because sometimes you get
a little thumbnail next to your listing
on Google. So, that's a big one as well.
So, if you folks are I think you're
starting YouTube videos soon, so that
could be big.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's really interesting.
Yeah. I've wondered about like do we
need to bring more of our video content
onto the website and and kind of what
are the reasons for doing that and if it
helps with SEO, that's a really good
one. Yeah. Nice. Okay, I think that's
most of my questions. That's that's
great. Thank you very much.
>> Cheers.
>> And there you have it. I hope you found
that SEO breakdown useful for your B2B
software or service company. And if you
maybe lack the time or resources in
house and want to start driving real
pipeline and revenue through SEO, why
not grab a call with me over at breaking
B2B.com or hit the link in the
description below. Or if you're not
ready, you can grab my 90 days to
revenue SEO playbook. Head over to
breakingb.com [music] and hit that
newsletter tab or you can check out the
breaking B2B podcast for weekly
interviews with SAS marketing leaders as
well as actual SEO B2B marketing tips
and much much more. With that, catch you
on the next one. Cheers.